
Boateng
The program does well in terms of correctness, clarity, documentation and generalizability. The many for loops could be improved by some 
vectorization to increase the programs efficiency. The program is generally strong.
Boateng:
The use of cumsum minimized 'for' loops and made the code efficient. Reference Ngutu for a good approach to tmr and sd.tmr code.
BOATENG	Code does not calculate median remaining lifetime at time ti, tmri, nor its standard deviation, but these two are hard coded to the example.  
Therefore, tmri and its std do not change as the input changes, and the function breaks when the input has more or less than 16 observations.  
Readability of code could be improved with more consistent use of spacing and new lines.  Code correctly calculates columns of Table 4.7 except for 
tmri and its std.
Boateng,
The code looks professional because R usually is to be coded as a function and then import the data. And it runs smoothly and is clear to follow 
step by step under the directions. But I think we do not need to print out the results of every step in the final answer which may be required when 
you program the code. Also the results still need to be rounded as we see in the book.
Boateng:
1. the first column does not show the intervals and just show the beginning of interval
2. The table misses 'nLost', 'nwithdraw', and 'ndeath'
3. it is very specific and manual, lots of things need to be changed if we have a new data set.
BOATENG
Generally, a good code, not too difficult to follow and produces the right values for the data frame.
Boateng-	 The code ran perfectly in R when I loaded it and the life table was displayed.  He spaced out his codes separately so it was easy to 
see which piece gave which column.
9: Nana: The codes are followed by the instructions provided by professor.
And it runs well. The results are correct.
Nana Boeteng seems to display the appropriate lifetable with a few small errors using his code, but he failed to submit an appropriate textfile as
directed or any form of readable table in his Microsoft word file.  I say he did a good job.




Bradley
The program generally cannot to be extended to very general cases. In terms of correctness and efficiency, the program does a good job. The program 
is not well documented which affects its clarity
BRADLEY	No function provided; not clear which inputs should be change; turning script into function would improve generalizability and clarity.  
Script appears to be hard coded to example with 16 observations.  This could be generalized by finding length of one of the input vectors. Code is 
easy to follow.  Not sure if call to set working directory, setwd(), is necessary.  Code correctly calculates columns of Table 4.7.
BRADLEY,
The code is fine to run and can get the right result. But it looks like SAS not R because R usually is coded as a function with parameter. And we 
still need some explanations to show reader the work step by step.
Bradley:
1.	The first column does not show the intervals and just shows the beginning of interval.
2.	Midpoints of interval just manually is set to 1 and thus not general
3.	The code needs revision for other data sets.
8. Bradley: The codes are straightforward and the logics are easy to
understand.
BRADLEY
Code is efficient. Gets the table without going through a very long process, in the output table row 15 and 16 are repeated though.
Bradley- 	His code is very concise.   Seems much more efficient than the code I wrote myself.   No spaces or comments in the code as in Boateng.
Bradley creates the appropriate lifetable without errors using his well-written, concise R code.  Although he did not successfully write a denoted
"function," his code works.  He did recopy too many lines in his text file, but nonetheless he did an excellent job.




Jiang
The program is very efficient, clear and very well documented. A useful improvement will be to convert the program into a function. The program 
could have being simplified by avoiding long procedures in producing some of the results
Jiang:
Very clear format and structure. I will copy this visual appearance in the future. Instead of using the round function, I tried using 
options(digits=)  It  wasn't perfect, so maybe round() is better. Is it possible to establish a global setting for round so it need not be 
repeatedly called?
JIANG	Code is easy to follow and well documented with comments.  No function provided;  turning script into function would improve 
generalizability.  Including a dataset or creating it in the script would have been convenient for assignment's evaluation.  Generalizability could 
be improved by assigning dim(Data) to object then grabbing first element of object for nrow and second element for ncol.   Correctness of the code 
could not be verified as the input dataset was not provided and no comments were given as to what its variables were.
Jiang
As a fresh man about R, I programmed the code more like SAS not R. I should program the code as a function which can be not only used in this 
question. I really learned a lot from others. And I still have a lot of work to do to make the code professionally.
3. Jiang: The codes are workable and easy to understand for there are notes
based on each part.
JIANG
Good code,  it produces the table accurately and also does a good job of placing the "+" signs on the censored observations. The last 2 rows are 
however not produced.
Jiang-		This was very similar to Bradley's code.  The code was short and concise.
Jiang wrote neat looking code and displayed the appropriate table without errors.  He did not display the last two columns.  His code was not
written with any function statements similar to Bradley's, and I'm not sure how to implement his code. I say he did a good job.




Ngutu
The program is not well documented but generally clear and efficient. It could have being improved also by transforming it into   a function. The 
strength and generalizability of the program is acceptable.
Ngutu:
I will look into the match function more. I really like how efficient it made your program. I suppose sd.htmi could be made more general by 
inclusion of the bi term, but in this case its of course trivial.
NGUTU	No function provided; not clear which inputs should be change; turning script into function would improve generalizability and clarity.  
Script appears to be hard coded to example with 16 observations.  This could be generalized by finding length of one of the input vectors.  Code is 
easy to follow.  Code correctly calculates columns of Table 4.7.
NGUTU
The code is fine to run and can get the right result. But it looks a little bit hard to follow without the explanations. And we still need to round 
the results to follow the book.
NGUTU
1. The first column does not show the intervals and just show the beginning of interval
2. the width column is manually set to one thus its not opted to be used for any other data sets with different time intervals
Needs revision for other datasets.
7. Ngutu: The codes are complicated. Some of them I am not able to
understand.
Ngutu-		Slightly longer code it seems but still worked fine.  Pete organized his code a little more than the others in the notepad file.
Ngutu displayed an almost identical lifetable, and his only shortcoming was his inability to write a function. He did an excellent job.


Nichols
There is not any form of documentation to guide one through the program. It would have been much clearer if some comments were added to program. The   
program in terms of generalizability is fairly good. It does well with efficiency because of the numerous vectorization
Nichols:
Indexing  the cumsum vector  (as you did later) for sd.s.hat would eliminate the second line of code and prevent the warning. Reference Ngutu for a 
good approach to tmr and sd.tmr code.
NICHOLS
I think the code is fine and which can be evaluated as NGUTU's and BRADLEY's.
NICHOLS	Code does not calculate median remaining lifetime at time ti, tmri, nor its standard deviation.  No function provided; not clear which 
inputs should be change; turning script into function would improve generalizability and clarity.  Script appears to be hard coded to example with 
16 observations.  This could be generalized by finding length of one of the input vectors.  Code correctly calculates columns of Table 4.7 except 
for tmri and its std.
Nicholes:
1. the first column does not show the intervals and just show the beginning of interval
2. the width column is manually set to one thus its not opted to be used for any other data sets with different time intervals
3. Does not have t_mr_hat,  sd_tmr_hat columns.
4. The code is very specific and manual and can not be applied to other data sets without revision.
NICHOLS
The code is good and accurate and produces the desired table. It is also not too long and easy to follow.
5. Nichols: I have trouble in running Nichols’s codes. Based on reading the
codes, the logics are reasonable.
Nichols-	My code had a warning message in it and I don't know why I didn't fix that.
Nichols displayed a near perfect lifetable using well written code, but seemed to not understand functionality as exhibited by her inability to
write a function.  She did an excellent job.



Madahian
The documentation, correctness, efficiency (a lot of vectorization to reduce cpu time used up in for loops), clarity and generalizability is very 
high.
Madahian:
I like the interval midpoint modification  and the use of cumprod() for efficiency. In the tmr and var.tmr expressions, I observed the use of 
interval midpoints rather than ti and tj. I don't understand how this would work with irregular interval width.
MADAHIAN	Correct. Well documented. Code is easy to follow. Efficient. Almost generalizable: a comment at top should state that there are two
places to change the pathname or create a variable so pathname only has to be changed once at top of script or remove call to write.table 
altogether.
MADAHIAN
The code is very clear and easy to follow. Only one point to say is the results still need to be rounded as we see in the book.
2. Behrouz Madahian: The codes are pretty straightforward and easy to
understand. It’s clear and functional.
MADAHIAN
Code is good and runs the table accurately. It also has good comments which make it easy to follow what the code is doing.
Madahian-	Code worked just fine.  I see nothing unique compared to the others.
Behrouze wrote functional code and displayed a lifetable that was almost identical to the given table.  He did an excellent job.




Terry
The documentation, correctness, efficiency (a lot of vectorization to reduce cpu time used up in for loops), clarity and generalizability is very 
high.
Terry:
Effective use of while loop for finding  tj ,tmr, tj+1. I don't know if I see the benefit in putting so many expressions in the for loop instead of 
using basic vector operations where possible
TERRY	Correct. Code is easy to follow. Efficient. Generalizable.  Would have been convenient to include tis, nint, nlost, nevent variables at top 
of script and a call to(user created) lifetable function at the bottom of script.
TERRY
Just need some explanations for the reader to follow step by step.
Terry,
A function is there but the data is not there and the line for running the function is missing.
4. Terry: The train of thought is similar with Behrouz. It’s a little bit
more complicated in coding style. But, it’s still workable and reasonable.
TERRY
The life table function was used and it was very efficient. It produced all columns and did a good job of placing the "+" sign on the censored 
observations.
Terry-		I did not like running this code because I had to go into the notepad file and manually delete all the "<" before I could run it in R.  
This code did not run automatically like the others did.
Terry displayed a near identical lifetable using well written, functional, code in R.  He even displayed '+' signs with the appropriate data only
seen in his code and Jiang's code.  He did an excellent job.



Vhaduri
The documentation, correctness, efficiency (a lot of vectorization to reduce cpu time used up in for loops), clarity and generalizability is very 
high.
VHADURI	Correct. Code is easy to follow. Efficient. Generalizable.  Kudos for translating R function to MATLAB.
VHADURI
It is hard to evaluate because I really do not know Matlab. Based on the explanations on class, I only can say maybe you still need to add the 
explanations to let the reader to follow you.
VHADURI
He showed his function in class and it looked complete.
VHADURI
Code looks to be very efficiently written in Mathematica, though I am not familiar to the language. It produces the table but gives some "-1" values 
which I understand to be the missing values.
Vhaduri-	Sudip did his lifetable in matlab which was interesting.  I had never seen a presentation on matlab so it was kinda overwhelming with 
the syntax but I respect anyone who can program in something like that.
Vhaduri did not submit the text file as directed, but he clarified this by submitting in class.  His code was unique, and he explained it.  Thus any 
shortfalls were overcome by his presentation.  He did an excellent job.



Winter
The documentation, correctness, efficiency (a lot of vectorization to reduce cpu time used up in for loops), clarity and generalizability is very 
high.
WINTER	Correct. Well documented. Code is easy to follow. Efficient. Generalizable.  Kudos for translating R function to SAS.
WINTER
I love the SAS with macro. I really can learn useful thing from these code. And maybe add little bit explanations will be better.
6. Winter: The SAS codes run well, and the results are correct. If the codes
can be more simplified, it will be better.
WINTER
Code was well written using SAS. It was a little lengthy but very efficient. It produces all the desired columns which are also very accurate.
Winter-		Brian's end result was the neatest table.  It looked exactly like the text book whereas all of the codes ran in R looked like a data 
frame.  It was very interesting seeing it done in SAS.  That was the first time I'd ever seen anyone actually program in SAS.
Winter also did not submit the text file as directed, but he explained his unique code in class.  He gave insight and taught us about the IMC Proc
in SAS.  He did an excellent job.
Bryan:
His code was in SAS and it was complete.




Spight
There is no documentation of  these two programs and the programs are no different from the survival package.
Spight:
I'm not sure I received the full code
SPIGHT	Code simply reuses lifetab function from KMsurv package.  Adding a call to library(KMsurv) would  improve code slightly.  Code does not 
calculate median remaining lifetime at time ti, tmri, nor its standard deviation.
SPIGHT
I think you misunderstand the requirement or maybe you submit a wrong file. We should calculate and then output the form, but not output the form 
directly.
SPIGHT
Just used lifetab() function and did not code it at all.
1. Spight: I did not see any valuable part from codes.
SPIGHT
The life table function was used to produce the table which was good. Some of the columns that we were supposed to produce were however not 
produced.
Spight-		I copied the notepad file directly into R and I got an error message that "R could not find lifetab function".
Spight merely used the already written function in R and did not submit a text file.  Spight did not complete the assignment.  Spight did an
unsatisfactory job.



Zhao
There is no documentation of  these two programs and the programs are no different from the survival package.
Zhao:
Diff() used effectively for multiple function definitions. Reference Ngutu for tmr and var.tmr code. Very clean and efficient code in general
ZHAO	Code simply reuses source code from lifetab function from KMsurv package.   Call to user-defined function life.T is called before it is 
created in the script. Code does not calculate median remaining lifetime at time ti, tmri, nor its standard deviation.
ZHAO
More professional and easier to follow with little bit explanations.
Zhao:
His code is not complete. A few columns are missing.
ZHAO
The R code produces the right table. The table is accurate using the code from life table in KM Surv. The last two columns are also not produced and 
maybe the code can be improved to produce the columns.
ZHAO-		This code looks identical to my own code with the warning message.  Still a good table.
Zhao's code as written does not compile for me.  He does display a good table missing two columns.  His code looks good though despite an
imperfection.  He did a good job.
